Advanced table design docs (#2647)
hashicorp/design-system: website/docs/components/table/advanced-table/partials/guidelines/guidelines.md

Reviewer: [Suggestion] If there is a way to cut down on the number of section headers it would prevent the sidebar from overflowing the bottom when scrolling.
<img width="1706" alt="Screenshot 2025-01-17 at 2 35 49 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f712e819-b5d7-4258-8dfb-a202e7c16cf6" />

Author: That's a good call out! I could make some section headers for the h4 level.

## Usage

### When to use

- When large datasets benefit from being viewed in a scrollable container instead of with pagination.
- When needing an expandable table for hierarchical data.
- When users would benefit from more efficient keyboard navigation, such as when there are many rows or columns. 

### When not to use

- If your dataset requires only basic interactions, such as simple sorting or pagination, and does not require features like nested rows, advanced keyboard navigation, or sticky headers, the standard [Table](/components/table/table) is a more suitable choice.
- When a visual representation like charts or graphs better conveys the data.
- As a layout mechanism for structuring content that isn’t tabular data.
- When replicating spreadsheet-like functionality with extensive in-cell editing or calculations.

## Columns

### Sorting

![A group of 4 Advanced Table header cells, with each variant of sort button: no sort button, the default unsorted, sorted ascending, and sorted descending.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/table-sorting.png)

- Sorting is not relevant for all content, so consider when to apply sorting thoughtfully.

> - An Advanced Table may only be sorted by a single column at a time.

Author: ```suggestion
- An Advanced Table allows end-users to sort by one column at a time. While multiple columns may offer sorting options, users can only apply sorting to one column at any given moment.
```

## Usage

### When to use

- When large datasets benefit from being viewed in a scrollable container instead of with pagination.

> - When needing an expandable table for hierarchical data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When an expandable table is needed for hierarchical data.
```

- When users would benefit from more efficient keyboard navigation, such as when there are many rows or columns. 

### When not to use

> - If your dataset requires only basic interactions, such as simple sorting or pagination, and does not require features like nested rows, advanced keyboard navigation, or sticky headers, the standard [Table](https://github.com/components/table/table) is a more suitable choice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If your dataset requires only basic interactions, such as simple sorting or pagination, and does not require features like nested rows, advanced keyboard navigation, or sticky headers, the standard [Table](/components/table/table) is a more suitable choice.
```
[Issue] Broken link

- When displaying static or minimal data that doesn’t require advanced interactivity.

> - When a visual representation like charts or graphs better conveys the data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When visual representations like charts or graphs better convey the data.
```

- As a layout mechanism for structuring content that isn’t tabular data.

> - When replicating spreadsheet-like functionality with extensive in-cell editing or calculations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- To replicate spreadsheet-like functionality with extensive in-cell editing or calculations.
```

## Columns

### Sorting

![A group of 4 Advanced Table header cells, with each variant of sort button: no sort button, the default unsorted, sorted ascending, and sorted descending.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/table-sorting.png)

> - Sorting is not relevant for all content, so consider when to apply sorting thoughtfully.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Sorting is not relevant for all content, so thoughtfully consider when to apply sorting.
```

> - An Advanced Table may only be sorted by a single column at a time.

Reviewer 2: Is it a "given" for consumers to understand that this means the end-user can only sort one column at a time but multiple sorting options can be available within a given table?

Some examples where it may be useful to include additional context in a tooltip include:

- When the label contains a product or HashiCorp-specific term.
- When the label refers to a setting that can be changed elsewhere in the application.

### Width 

Column width is determined by manually resizing the header column and cells within Figma. As a best practice, column width should be adjusted to fit the longest data type within the cell.

### Placement

!!! Info

The column placement property is only relevant within Figma and doesn’t exist as a property in code.

!!!

Column placement determines the visual styling based on where the column is placed relative to other columns in the Advanced Table.

![For header columns, start placement adds a border radius to the top left corner and a border on the left and right, middle placement has squared corners and a border on the right, end placement has a border radius on the top right corner and a border on the right. For cells, start placement has a border on the left and right, middle and end placement have a border on the right.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/table-col-placement.png)

### Alignment

> The alignment of text and content within an Advanced Table impacts the readability and speed at which users can effectively parse the information. The chosen alignment method depends on the content within the cell, and relative position within the advanced table.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The alignment of text and content within an Advanced Table impacts the readability and speed at which users can effectively parse the information. The proper alignment method depends on the content within the cell, and relative position within the advanced table.
```

not sure if that is a better word or maybe it should be "most appropriate alignment method" — "chosen" doesn't seem like the right word here though

#### Right alignment 

Right alignment can be used when expressing numerical values with decimals as this aligns the decimal places vertically.

Common examples of right alignment include:

- Financial information and currency amounts.
- Fractional and floating point values represented with decimals.

![](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/end-alignment-example.png)

Right alignment can also be used in the last column of an advanced table to:

- Highlight a "more options" function.
- As a means to visually "bookend" the row with content that is of a similar length, e.g., timestamps, TTL (time-to-live) values, dates.

![](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/end-alignment-example-02.png)

!!! Dont

Don’t right align content that is variable in length. This can make the content more difficult to read by forcing an unnatural [reading pattern](/patterns/button-organization?tab=research#layout-and-reading-patterns).

![Column with badges that have different length labels end aligned. The badge labels are "Successful", "Needs confirmation", and "Error".](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/end-alignment-variable-length.png)

!!!

> ## Column and row span
> 
> - Supports combining multiple columns or rows into a single cell.
> - Apply column and row spans carefully to maintain alignment, accessibility, and smooth table interactions.
> - Multi-span cells should use the same alignment for readability.
> 
> ![](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/colspan-table-example.png)
> 
> #### Other alignment methods
> 
> We don’t recommend center or justified alignment of content within Advanced Table cells. These alignment methods can result in the content being difficult to read, especially if it is variable in length.
> 
> !!! Dont
> 
> Don’t center header labels or cell content within a table.
> 
> ![](/assets/components/table/center-justified-alignment.png)
> 
> !!!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Other alignment methods

We don’t recommend center or justified alignment of content within Advanced Table cells. These alignment methods can result in the content being difficult to read, especially if it is variable in length.

!!! Dont

Don’t center header labels or cell content within a table.

![](/assets/components/table/center-justified-alignment.png)

!!!

## Column and row span

- Supports combining multiple columns or rows into a single cell.
- Apply column and row spans carefully to maintain alignment, accessibility, and smooth table interactions.
- Multi-span cells should use the same alignment for readability.

![](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/colspan-table-example.png)
```

## Usage

> ### When to use

Reviewer: [Suggestion] Should we add a new bullet to the table "When not to use" section about not using it if you require complex interactions like the ones listed below? We could also add a link to the advanced table from there.

- When large datasets benefit from being viewed in a scrollable container instead of with pagination.
- When displaying hierarchical data that allows users to expand rows to reveal related data without leaving the table.
- When users would benefit from more efficient keyboard navigation, such as when there are many rows or columns. 

### When not to use

- If sorting and pagination are sufficient for your dataset, use the standard [Table](/components/table/table) instead.

> - When displaying static or minimal data that doesn’t require advanced interactivity.

Author: Yeah, it's also possible on the advanced table, reading it again, I can see how that might be misleading.

> - When displaying static or minimal data that doesn’t require advanced interactivity.

Reviewer 4: [Link to example of filtering](https://hds-showcase-git-hds-3965-advanced-table-clean-hashicorp.vercel.app/components/advanced-table#with-inline-filter)

> - When displaying static or minimal data that doesn’t require advanced interactivity.

Author: I changed the content a bit, but I'm unsure how to clarify it further.

> - When displaying static or minimal data that doesn’t require advanced interactivity.

Reviewer 3: I actually think you cover this in the bullet point above. This can be removed completed.

```suggestion
```

- When replicating spreadsheet-like functionality with extensive in-cell editing or calculations.

## Columns

### Sorting

![A group of 4 Advanced Table header cells, with each variant of sort button: no sort button, the default unsorted, sorted ascending, and sorted descending.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/table-sorting.png)

- Sorting is not relevant for all content, so consider when to apply sorting thoughtfully.
- Columns with sorting enabled are interactive and include hover, active, and focus states.
- An Advanced Table may only be sorted by a single column at a time.

### Tooltips

Labels within the Advanced Table column should be clear, concise, and straightforward. In the case that more context or details are necessary, a [Tooltip](/components/tooltip) can be used in conjunction with the label but should be used sparingly and as a last resort.

![](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/table-tooltip-example.png)

Some examples where it may be useful to include additional context in a tooltip include:
- When the label contains a product or HashiCorp-specific term.
- When the label refers to a setting that can be changed elsewhere in the application.

> ## Width 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Width 
```
[Question] Was this supposed to be nested under the "columns" header?

Author: Yeah, that one should be nested underneath column; good catch!

Column width is determined by manually resizing the header column and cells within Figma. As a best practice, column width should be adjusted to fit the longest data type within the cell.

> ## Placement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Placement
```
[Question] Was this supposed to be nested under the "columns" header?

!!! Info

The column placement property is only relevant within Figma and doesn’t exist as a property in code.
!!!

Column placement determines the visual styling based on where the column is placed relative to other columns in the Advanced Table.

![Advanced Table column placement example](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/table-col-placement.png)

> ## Alignment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Alignment
```
[Question] Was this supposed to be under the "columns" header?

The alignment of text and content within an Advanced Table impacts the readability and speed at which users can effectively parse the information. The chosen alignment method depends on the content within the cell, and relative position within the advanced table.

!!! Info 
Helios uses left and right for alignment to match the Ember component API. This documentation follows that convention for consistency across design and code.
!!!

> 

Author: ```suggestion
### Consistent alignment
Use consistent alignment between the header label and the cell content.
```

!!! Do

![An Advanced Table with two columns, the first column is left aligned and the second is right aligned.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/table-alignment-do.png)
!!!

!!! Dont

![An Advanced Table with two columns, the header of the first column is left aligned and the cell below is right aligned. The header of the second column is right aligned and the cell below is left aligned.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/table-alignment-dont.png)
!!!

### Left alignment

> Align content to the start of the cell by default. This ensures readability across different content types, consistency in content of varying lengths, and alignment between the column header label and the content within the cell.
> Use start alignment for:
> - String and text-based content (unique identifiers or IDs, names and naming conventions, etc).
> - Numerical values that do not contain decimals or floating point numbers.
> - Numerical values that contain periods or other delimiter characters (IP addresses).
> Nested components that display a string or text value, e.g., a [Badge](/components/badge).

Author: ```suggestion
Align content to the start of the cell by default. This ensures readability across different content types, consistency in content of varying lengths, and alignment between the column header label and the content within the cell.

Use start alignment for:
- String and text-based content (unique identifiers or IDs, names and naming conventions, etc).
- Numerical values that do not contain decimals or floating point numbers.
- Numerical values that contain periods or other delimiter characters (IP addresses).
- Nested components that display a string or text value, e.g., a [Badge](/components/badge).
```

Right alignment can also be used in the last column of an advanced table to:
- Highlight a "more options" function pertaining to the content within a row.
- As a means to visually "bookend" the row with content that is of a similar length, e.g., timestamps, TTL (time-to-live) values, dates.

![](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/end-alignment-example-02.png)

!!! Dont

Don’t right align content that is variable in length. This can make the content more difficult to read by forcing an unnatural [reading pattern](/patterns/button-organization?tab=research#layout-and-reading-patterns).

![Column with badges that have different length labels end aligned. The badge labels are "Successful", "Needs confirmation", and "Error".](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/end-alignment-variable-length.png)
!!!

### Other alignment methods

We don’t recommend center or justified alignment of content within Advanced Table cells. These alignment methods can result in the content being difficult to read, especially if it is variable in length.

!!! Dont

Don’t center header labels or cell content within a table.

![](/assets/components/table/center-justified-alignment.png)
!!!

> ## Expandable rows

Author: ```suggestion
## Rows
``

## Striping 

![Table striping examples](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-striping.png)

Striping enhances readability by alternating row colors, making it easier to scan tabular data.
- Non-Nested Advanced Tables: Striping starts with the second row, distinguishing it from the header.
- Nested Advanced Tables: Child rows are automatically striped, while parent rows remain unstriped to visually reinforce hierarchy. This behavior cannot be disabled.

> Striping improves clarity for numerical or text-heavy data and ensures hierarchical relationships are visually distinct. For non-nested Advanced Tables, striping is optional and must be enabled with an argument. Always verify adequate color contrast when using striping.

Author: ```suggestion
Striping improves clarity for numerical or text-heavy data and ensures hierarchical relationships are visually distinct. For non-nested Advanced Tables, striping is optional and must be enabled with an argument.
```

!!! Info

Ensure that content within striped rows continue to maintain adequate color contrast with the striped background.
!!!

## Expandable rows

> Expandable rows allow users to expand or collapse additional content within the table structure. The additional content must be in a similar form to the parent row.

Author: > Expandable rows let users show or hide more content within the table. The expanded content should align with the header labels, even if the parent row includes minimal data, such as an expand/collapse button and text.

Yeah, this can be worded better with the example image.

## Headers

- Labels in headers should be clear, concise, and straightforward.
- The label should infer clearly what type of content is contained within the cell (string, number, status, etc).
- Labels should use sentence-case capitalization, not all-caps.

When sticky headers are enabled, the label in each column remains visible as the user scrolls. This can be useful for large data sets where the user might need to constantly reference the label.

![](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-sticky-header.png)  

## Cells

### Density

![Medium cell density has 14px vertical padding, tall has 22px vertical padding, and short has 6px vertical padding.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/table-density.png)

- We recommend using medium cell density by default.
- If content is largely string/text-based, short allows for more content to be displayed within the page.
- While denser content allows for more rows to be displayed within a single page, it also makes comprehension and scanning more difficult.

### Column/Row Span

> - Supports merging multiple columns or rows.

Author: I'm trying to say that you can use column/ row span to combine multiple columns or rows into a single cell.
Maybe: 
```suggestion
- Supports combining multiple columns or rows into a single cell.
```

> - Use column and row spans carefully to avoid misalignment or breaking table interactions.

Author: From my understanding column and row spans can break table interactions by disrupting keyboard navigation and making data harder for assistive technologies to interpret.

> - Use column and row spans carefully to avoid misalignment or breaking table interactions.

Reviewer 5: This is not the case, its fine to use rowspan/colspan. I would just recommend only using it when absolutely necessary as it can be confusing to all users (not just screen reader users)

- Multi-span cells should use the same alignment for readability.

![](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/colspan-table-example.png)

### Horizontal scrolling

- We recommend using this when there are many columns of equal priority.
- Place the Advanced Table in a scrollable container for smooth side-scrolling.

![](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/horizontal-scrolling.png)

## Keyboard navigation

There are two modes when using a keyboard to interact with the Advanced Table: navigation and action.

### Navigation mode

When the user moves focus into the Advanced Table (tab key), the first cell will be focused, putting them into navigation mode and allowing the user to navigate freely with their arrow keys. Other keys within navigation mode include: 

> 

Reviewer 4: [super nit, non-blocking] were we still planning on showing a video for this section and the other section (action mode)?

Author: Based on Lee's feedback, I’m considering removing this section, but I’m also evaluating how it might benefit our consumers. This section primarily explains keyboard navigation usage rather than providing guidance on building or properly designing with the Advanced Table. Perhaps this information would be more appropriate in the Accessibility tab.
---
Any thoughts? @majedelass + @hashicorp/hds-design

Reviewer 5: Ah! Sorry, I meant just the bullet about horizontal scrolling. If we think designers will see this content, I don't think its bad to have the content here. Maybe we could also outline the keyboard navigation and have a video in the a11y tab.

Reviewer 6: I'll validate the video idea, that would be really great! It also might be helpful if you could show the keystrokes when they're pressed (not a requirement, a nice to have). You _might_ be able to do that in Quicktime, otherwise, happy to help put something together in After Effects!

I'll also validate that some basic content here on how the keyboard navigation works is helpful for designers, but the bulk of it seems to lay better in the accessibility section.

Reviewer 5: You could use [keycastr](https://github.com/keycastr/keycastr) to display the keystrokes!

Author: For visibility: This will be a follow-up task after merging this PR

## Usage

### When to use

- When large datasets benefit from being viewed in a scrollable container instead of with pagination.
- When displaying hierarchical data that allows users to expand rows to reveal related data without leaving the table.
- When users would benefit from more efficient keyboard navigation, such as when there are many rows or columns. 

### When not to use

> - If sorting and pagination are sufficient for your dataset, use the standard [Table](/components/table/table) instead.

Author: ```suggestion
- If your dataset requires only basic interactions, such as simple sorting or pagination, and does not require features like nested rows, advanced keyboard navigation, or sticky headers, the standard [Table](https://github.com/components/table/table) is a more suitable choice.
```

- When displaying static or minimal data that doesn’t require advanced interactivity.
- When a visual representation like charts or graphs better conveys the data.
- As a layout mechanism for structuring content that isn’t tabular data.
- When replicating spreadsheet-like functionality with extensive in-cell editing or calculations.

## Columns

### Sorting

![A group of 4 Advanced Table header cells, with each variant of sort button: no sort button, the default unsorted, sorted ascending, and sorted descending.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/table-sorting.png)

- Sorting is not relevant for all content, so consider when to apply sorting thoughtfully.
- An Advanced Table may only be sorted by a single column at a time.

### Tooltips

Labels within the Advanced Table column should be clear, concise, and straightforward. In the case that more context or details are necessary, a [Tooltip](/components/tooltip) can be used in conjunction with the label but should be used sparingly and as a last resort.

![](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/table-tooltip-example.png)

> Some examples where it may be useful to include additional context in a tooltip include:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Some examples where it may be useful to include additional context in a tooltip include:

```

- When the label contains a product or HashiCorp-specific term.
- When the label refers to a setting that can be changed elsewhere in the application.

### Width 

Column width is determined by manually resizing the header column and cells within Figma. As a best practice, column width should be adjusted to fit the longest data type within the cell.

### Placement

!!! Info

The column placement property is only relevant within Figma and doesn’t exist as a property in code.

> !!!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

!!!
```

Column placement determines the visual styling based on where the column is placed relative to other columns in the Advanced Table.

![For header columns, start placement adds a border radius to the top left corner and a border on the left and right, middle placement has squared corners and a border on the right, end placement has a border radius on the top right corner and a border on the right. For cells, start placement has a border on the left and right, middle and end placement have a border on the right.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/table-col-placement.png)

### Alignment

The alignment of text and content within an Advanced Table impacts the readability and speed at which users can effectively parse the information. The chosen alignment method depends on the content within the cell, and relative position within the advanced table.

!!! Info 
Helios uses left and right for alignment to match the Ember component API. This documentation follows that convention for consistency across design and code.
!!!

> ### Consistent alignment
> Use consistent alignment between the header label and the cell content.
> !!! Do

Reviewer 4: Updating formatting.
```suggestion
### Consistent alignment

Use consistent alignment between the header label and the cell content.

!!! Do
```

![An Advanced Table with two columns, the first column is left aligned and the second is right aligned.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/table-alignment-do.png)

> !!!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

!!!
```

!!! Dont

![An Advanced Table with two columns, the header of the first column is left aligned and the cell below is right aligned. The header of the second column is right aligned and the cell below is left aligned.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/table-alignment-dont.png)

> !!!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

!!!
```

> !!!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

!!!
```

#### Left alignment

Align content to the left of the cell by default. This ensures readability across different content types, consistency in content of varying lengths, and alignment between the column header label and the content within the cell.

> Use left alignment for:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Use left alignment for:

```

- String and text-based content (unique identifiers or IDs, names and naming conventions, etc).
- Numerical values that do not contain decimals or floating point numbers.
- Numerical values that contain periods or other delimiter characters (IP addresses).
- Nested components that display a string or text value, e.g., a [Badge](/components/badge).

![Left alignment of content within an Advanced Table](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/start-alignment-example.png)

#### Right alignment 

> Right alignment can be used when expressing numerical values with decimals as this aligns the decimal places vertically.
> Common examples of right alignment include:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Right alignment can be used when expressing numerical values with decimals as this aligns the decimal places vertically.

Common examples of right alignment include:

```

- Financial information and currency amounts.
- Fractional and floating point values represented with decimals.

![Right alignment of content within a table](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/end-alignment-example.png)

> Right alignment can also be used in the last column of an advanced table to:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Right alignment can also be used in the last column of an advanced table to:

```

- Highlight a "more options" function.
- As a means to visually "bookend" the row with content that is of a similar length, e.g., timestamps, TTL (time-to-live) values, dates.

![](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/end-alignment-example-02.png)

!!! Dont

Don’t right align content that is variable in length. This can make the content more difficult to read by forcing an unnatural [reading pattern](/patterns/button-organization?tab=research#layout-and-reading-patterns).

![Column with badges that have different length labels end aligned. The badge labels are "Successful", "Needs confirmation", and "Error".](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/end-alignment-variable-length.png)

> !!!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

!!!
```

#### Other alignment methods

We don’t recommend center or justified alignment of content within Advanced Table cells. These alignment methods can result in the content being difficult to read, especially if it is variable in length.

!!! Dont

Don’t center header labels or cell content within a table.

![](/assets/components/table/center-justified-alignment.png)

> !!!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

!!!
```

## Rows

### Striping 

![Table striping examples](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-striping.png)

> Striping enhances readability by alternating row colors, making it easier to scan tabular data.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Striping enhances readability by alternating row colors, making it easier to scan tabular data.

```

- Non-Nested Advanced Tables: Striping starts with the second row, distinguishing it from the header.
- Nested Advanced Tables: Child rows are automatically striped, while parent rows remain unstriped to visually reinforce hierarchy. This behavior cannot be disabled.

!!! Info

Ensure that content within striped rows continue to maintain adequate color contrast with the striped background.

> !!!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

!!!
```

### Expandable rows

Expandable rows allow users to expand or collapse additional content within the table structure. The additional content must be in a similar form to the parent row.

![Advanced Table expandable rows. The parent rows display a summary of a Hashicorp product and the total price, the children rows show a breakdown of each billing item from that product and their individual cost.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/expandable-rows.png) 

### When to use

Use expandable rows to display hierarchical data efficiently. This allows users to explore details within the table without navigating away.

!!! Dont

Avoid using expandable rows when data is not structured in parent-child relationships.

![Advanced Table column placement example](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-dont-parent-nested.png)

> !!!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

!!!
```

!!!

## Interaction

- Expanding a parent row reveals its child rows, maintaining indentation for clear relationships.
- Users can navigate between cells using arrow keys. To expand or collapse a row, they must first focus on the expand button using the arrow keys, then press Enter to activate it.
- When scrolling, the header row remains visible, allowing users to reference column labels while interacting with nested rows.

> ### Considerations for nested rows

Author: ```suggestion
### Nested rows
```

- Use the same density setting for parent and child rows to keep layouts consistent.
- Ensure that nested content and components within striped rows maintain adequate contrast with the background color.

### Placement

!!! Info

The row placement property is only relevant within Figma and doesn’t exist as a property within the code.

> !!!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

!!!
```

## Headers

- Labels in headers should be clear, concise, and straightforward.
- The label should infer clearly what type of content is contained within the cell (string, number, status, etc).
- Labels should use sentence-case capitalization, not all-caps.

When sticky headers are enabled, the label in each column remains visible as the user scrolls. This can be useful for large data sets where the user might need to constantly reference the label.

![](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-sticky-header.png)  

## Cells

### Density

![Medium cell density has 14px vertical padding, tall has 22px vertical padding, and short has 6px vertical padding.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/table-density.png)

- We recommend using medium cell density by default.
- If content is largely string/text-based, short allows for more content to be displayed within the page.
- While denser content allows for more rows to be displayed within a single page, it also makes comprehension and scanning more difficult.

### Column/Row Span

- Supports merging multiple columns or rows.

> - Use column and row spans carefully to avoid misalignment or breaking table interactions.

Author: ```suggestion
- Apply column and row spans carefully to maintain alignment, accessibility, and smooth table interactions.
```

- Multi-span cells should use the same alignment for readability.

![](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/colspan-table-example.png)

### Horizontal scrolling

- We recommend using this when there are many columns of equal priority.
- Place the Advanced Table in a scrollable container for smooth side-scrolling.

![](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/horizontal-scrolling.png)

## Keyboard navigation

There are two modes when using a keyboard to interact with the Advanced Table: navigation and action.

### Navigation mode

When the user moves focus into the Advanced Table (tab key), the first cell will be focused, putting them into navigation mode and allowing the user to navigate freely with their arrow keys. Other keys within navigation mode include: 

- Home (fn + left): Move focus to the row's first cell.
- End (fn + right): Move focus to the row's last cell.
- PageUp (fn + up): Moves focus to the first cell in the column.
- PageDown (fn + down): Moves focus to the last cell in the column.

> - Horizontal Scrolling: Arrow keys allow horizontal movement to access hidden columns if the Table extends beyond the screen width.

Author: ```suggestion
```

Some examples where it may be useful to include additional context in a tooltip include:
- When the label contains a product or HashiCorp-specific term.
- When the label refers to a setting that can be changed elsewhere in the application.

## Width 

Column width is determined by manually resizing the header column and cells within Figma. As a best practice, column width should be adjusted to fit the longest data type within the cell.

## Placement

!!! Info

The column placement property is only relevant within Figma and doesn’t exist as a property in code.
!!!

Column placement determines the visual styling based on where the column is placed relative to other columns in the Advanced Table.

![Advanced Table column placement example](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/table-col-placement.png)

## Alignment

The alignment of text and content within an Advanced Table impacts the readability and speed at which users can effectively parse the information. The chosen alignment method depends on the content within the cell, and relative position within the advanced table.

!!! Info 

> Helios uses left and right for alignment to match the Ember component API. This documentation follows that convention for consistency across design and development.

Reviewer 6: [small nit]

```suggestion
Helios uses left and right for alignment to match the Ember component API. This documentation follows that convention for consistency across design and code.
```

Reviewer 6: Also, all of the content following this uses `start` and `end` alignment, which is contrary to this note. I'll try to catch them where I can, but this probably also needs to be updated in the standard table docs. I thought we had a task to track that or had already done it, but LMK if you want me to create one or if you want to handle it in this PR.

!!!

!!! Do

![Advanced Table column placement example](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/table-alignment-do.png)
!!!

!!! Dont

![Advanced Table column placement example](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/table-alignment-dont.png)
!!!

> ### Start alignment

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
### Left alignment
```

> Align content to the start of the cell by default. This ensures readability across different content types, consistency in content of varying lengths, and alignment between the column header label and the content within the cell.

Reviewer 6: Seems like this formatting is a bit borked, should it be:

```markdown
Align content to the left of the cell by default [...] content within the cell. Use left alignment for:

- String and text-based content etc, etc
- Numerical values, etc
- Numerical values that contain periods, etc
- Nested components that display a string or text value, etc
```

- Use start alignment for:
String and text-based content (unique identifiers or IDs, names and naming conventions, etc).
- Numerical values that do not contain decimals or floating point numbers.
- Numerical values that contain periods or other delimiter characters (IP addresses).
Nested components that display a string or text value, e.g., a [Badge](/components/badge).

> ![Start alignment of content within an Advanced Table](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/start-alignment-example.png)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
![Left alignment of content within an Advanced Table](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/start-alignment-example.png)
```

> ### End alignment 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
### Right alignment 
```

> End alignment can be used when expressing numerical values with decimals as this aligns the decimal places vertically.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Right alignment can be used when expressing numerical values with decimals as this aligns the decimal places vertically.
```

> Common examples of end alignment include:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Common examples of right alignment include:
```

- Financial information and currency amounts.
- Fractional and floating point values represented with decimals.

> ![End alignment of content within a table](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/end-alignment-example.png)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
![Right alignment of content within a table](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/end-alignment-example.png)
```

> End alignment can also be used in the last column of an advanced table to:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Right alignment can also be used in the last column of an advanced table to:
```

- Highlight a "more options" function pertaining to the content within a row.
- As a means to visually "bookend" the row with content that is of a similar length, e.g., timestamps, TTL (time-to-live) values, dates.

> ![End alignment example within a table with a date and more options](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/end-alignment-example-02.png)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
![Right alignment example within a table with a date and more options](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/end-alignment-example-02.png)
```

!!! Dont

> Don’t end align content that is variable in length. This can make the content more difficult to read by forcing an unnatural [reading pattern](/patterns/button-organization?tab=research#layout-and-reading-patterns).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Don’t right align content that is variable in length. This can make the content more difficult to read by forcing an unnatural [reading pattern](/patterns/button-organization?tab=research#layout-and-reading-patterns).
```

> ![End alignment with content that is variable in length](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/end-alignment-variable-length.png)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
![Right alignment with content that is variable in length](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/end-alignment-variable-length.png)
```

!!!

### Other alignment methods

We don’t recommend center or justified alignment of content within a cell or advanced table. These alignment methods can result in the content being difficult to read, especially if it is variable in length.

!!! Dont

Don’t center header labels or cell content within a table.

![Example of centered content within an Advanced Table](/assets/components/table/center-justified-alignment.png)
!!!

> ## Expandable rows

Reviewer 6: I'm not sure if this heading belongs here, does it make sense to couple striping underneath? I'm inclined to say they should be their own sections.

```suggestion
```

Reviewer 6: Or, did you mean this to be just "Rows", in which case it the heading hierarchy makes sense. In that case you can ignore the other notes on hierarchy.

Author: Yeah rows for that one!

> ### Striping 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
## Striping 
```

![Table striping examples](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-striping.png)

Striping enhances readability by alternating row colors, making it easier to scan tabular data.
- Non-Nested Advanced Tables: Striping starts with the second row, distinguishing it from the header.

> - Nested Advanced Tables:Child rows are automatically striped, while parent rows remain unstriped to visually reinforce hierarchy. This behavior cannot be disabled.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- Nested Advanced Tables: Child rows are automatically striped, while parent rows remain unstriped to visually reinforce hierarchy. This behavior cannot be disabled.
```

> Striping improves clarity for numerical or text-heavy data and ensures hierarchical relationships are visually distinct. For non-nested Advanced Tables, striping is optional and must be enabled with an argument. Always verify adequate color contrast when using striping.

Reviewer 6: This sentence and the previous blog of text seem like they are saying the same thing, is there a way to combine them?

Additionally, the final sentence about verifying color contrast is duplicated in the subsequent info banner, should that be removed?

!!! Info

Ensure that nested components within striped rows continue to maintain adequate color contrast with the striped background.
!!!

> ### Expandable rows

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
## Expandable rows
```

Expandable rows allow users to expand or collapse additional content within the table structure.

![Advanced Table expandable rows examples](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/expandable-rows.png) 

### When to use

> - When organizing hierarchical data into parent-child relationships, allowing users to expand or collapse details as needed.

Reviewer 6: [suggestion] This is a single item, I don't think it needs a bullet. Additionally, I think I remember you using this point about not navigating to a new page in the google doc which was a valid use case.

```suggestion
Use expandable rows when organizing hierarchical data into parent-child relationships, allowing users to expand or collapse details as needed without navigating to a new page.
```

!!! Dont

> Avoid when data does not require structured parent-child relationships.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Avoid using expandable rows when data is not structured in parent-child relationships.
```

> ![Advanced Table column placement example](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-dont-parent-nested.png)

Author: I can spin up a better example for this!

!!!

## Interaction

- Expanding a parent row reveals its child rows, maintaining indentation for clear relationships.
- Users can navigate between cells using arrow keys. To expand or collapse a row, they must first focus on the expand button using the arrow keys, then press Enter to activate it.

> - When scrolling down, the header row remains visible, allowing users to reference column labels while interacting with nested rows.

Reviewer 6: The scroll direction doesn't seem relevant, the header row will be displayed no matter what direction the user is scrolling.

```suggestion
- When scrolling, the header row remains visible, allowing users to reference column labels while interacting with nested rows.
```

- Expanding a row moves focus to the first child row, while collapsing returns focus to the parent row.

### Considerations for nested rows

- Use the same density setting for parent and child rows to keep layouts consistent.

> - Check that striping and background shading maintain proper contrast.

Reviewer 6: I'm not quite sure what you're trying to say here, maybe this is more clear?

```suggestion
- Ensure that nested content and components within striped rows maintain adequate contrast with the background color.
```

> ### Placement

Reviewer 6: Should this be an h2? It doesn't belong hierarchically under "Interaction"

```suggestion
## Placement
```

!!! Info

The row placement property is only relevant within Figma and doesn’t exist as a property within the code.
!!!

> Row placement determines the visual styling based on where the row is placed relative to other rows within the Advanced Table. Only cells with a column placement that is either start or end utilize the row placement property; column position middle does not utilize this property.

Reviewer 6: "Use" for more plain language.

```suggestion
Row placement determines the visual styling based on where the row is placed relative to other rows within the Advanced Table. Only cells with a column placement that is either start or end use the row placement property; column position middle does not use this property.
```

> ![Table row placement example](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/table-row-placement.png)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
![The cell with column placement end and row placement end has a border radius set on the bottom right corner.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/table-row-placement.png)
```

## Headers

- Labels in headers should be clear, concise, and straightforward.
- The label should infer clearly what type of content is contained within the cell (string, number, status, etc).
- Labels should use sentence-case capitalization, not all-caps.

When sticky headers are enabled, the label in each column remains visible as the user scrolls. This can be useful for large data sets where the user might need to constantly reference the label.

> ![Advanced Table sticky header example](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-sticky-header.png)  

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
![](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-sticky-header.png)  
```

## Cells

### Density

> ![Table cell density](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/table-density.png)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
![Medium cell density has 14px vertical padding, tall has 22px vertical padding, and short has 6px vertical padding.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/table-density.png)
```

- We recommend using medium cell density by default.
- If content is largely string/text-based, short allows for more content to be displayed within the page.
- While denser content allows for more rows to be displayed within a single page, it also makes comprehension and scanning more difficult.

### Column/Row Span

- Supports merging multiple columns or rows.
- Use column and row spans carefully to avoid misalignment or breaking table interactions.
- Multi-span cells should use the same alignment for readability.

> ![Table cell density](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/colspan-table-example.png)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
![](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/colspan-table-example.png)
```

### Horizontal scrolling

> - Needed when there are many columns of equal priority.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- We recommend using this when there are many columns of equal priority.
```

- Place the Advanced Table in a scrollable container for smooth side-scrolling.

> ![Advanced Table horizontal scrolling](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/horizontal-scrolling.png)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
![](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/horizontal-scrolling.png)
```

## Keyboard navigation

There are two modes when using a keyboard to interact with the Advanced Table: navigation and action.

### Navigation mode

When the user moves focus into the Advanced Table (tab key), the first cell will be focused, putting them into navigation mode and allowing the user to navigate freely with their arrow keys. Other keys within navigation mode include: 

- Home (fn + left): Move focus to the row's first cell.
- End (fn + right): Move focus to the row's last cell.
- PageUp (fn + up): Moves focus to the first cell in the column.
- PageDown (fn + down): Moves focus to the last cell in the column.

> - Horizontal Scrolling: Arrow keys allow horizontal movement to access hidden columns if the Table extends beyond the screen width.

Reviewer 5: Suggestion: I don't think we really need to say this.

Author: Both sections here?

Reviewer 5: Just the bullet point about horizontal scrolling!! sorry I wasn't more clear.

Author: No worries!

### Action mode

When the user is in navigation mode, pressing enter will activate action mode, where:

> - If a cell contains a single interactive element, pressing Enter will focus on that element instead of executing it immediately.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- If a cell contains a single interactive element, pressing Enter will focus on that element.
```

- If there is more than one interactive element within the cell, the first element will be focused, allowing the user to tab between them.
- Pressing escape will take the user out of action mode and back into navigation mode.

### Multi-Select

> Multi-select allows users to select multiple rows to perform bulk actions, such as deleting or exporting data. The Advanced Table maintains selection states across pagination and filtering, ensuring consistency when interacting with large datasets. However, multi-select and sorting are not supported for nested rows at this time. For more details, check out the [Multi-Select Table Pattern.](https://helios.hashicorp.design/patterns/table-multi-select)

Reviewer 5: Thought: we should probably update the table multi select pattern to at least acknowledge advanced table at some point.

> Multi-select allows users to select multiple rows to perform bulk actions, such as deleting or exporting data. The Advanced Table maintains selection states across pagination and filtering, ensuring consistency when interacting with large datasets. However, multi-select and sorting are not supported for nested rows at this time. For more details, check out the [Multi-Select Table Pattern.](https://helios.hashicorp.design/patterns/table-multi-select)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Multi-select allows users to select multiple rows to perform bulk actions, such as deleting or exporting data. Multi-select and sorting are not supported for nested rows at this time. For more details, check out the [Multi-Select Table Pattern.](https://helios.hashicorp.design/patterns/table-multi-select)
```

I don't believe the Advanced Table maintains the selection state across pagination (that is not the case with the original Table component), I think the consumer has to do that. Is this correct @alex-ju?

A multi-select pattern consists of:

1. A select all in the table's header row. This acts as the parent checkbox, allowing the selection or deselection of all child rows in a single table simultaneously.

> ![Example of multi-select in a table header](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/table-multi-select-header.png)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
![](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/table-multi-select-header.png)
```

2. Row level select allowing for the selection of an individual row.

> ![Example of multi-select within table cells](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/table-multi-select-cells.png)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
![](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/table-multi-select-cells.png)
```

!!! Do

Header labels and column content should align.

![An Advanced Table with two columns, the first column is left aligned and the second is right aligned.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/table-alignment-do.png)

!!!

!!! Dont

Avoid misaligned header labels and content.

![An Advanced Table with two columns, the header of the first column is left aligned and the cell below is right aligned. The header of the second column is right aligned and the cell below is left aligned.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/table-alignment-dont.png)

!!!

#### Left alignment

Align content to the left of the cell by default. This ensures readability across different content types, consistency in content of varying lengths, and alignment between the column header label and the content within the cell.

Use left alignment for:

- String and text-based content (unique identifiers or IDs, names and naming conventions, etc).
- Numerical values that do not contain decimals or floating point numbers.
- Numerical values that contain periods or other delimiter characters (IP addresses).
- Nested components that display a string or text value, e.g., a [Badge](/components/badge).

> ![Left alignment of content within an Advanced Table](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/start-alignment-example.png)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
![](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/start-alignment-example.png)
```

#### Right alignment 

Right alignment can be used when expressing numerical values with decimals as this aligns the decimal places vertically.

Common examples of right alignment include:

- Financial information and currency amounts.
- Fractional and floating point values represented with decimals.

> ![Right alignment of content within a table](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/end-alignment-example.png)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
![](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/end-alignment-example.png)
```

- Supports combining multiple columns or rows into a single cell.
- Apply column and row spans carefully to maintain alignment, accessibility, and smooth table interactions.
- Multi-span cells should use the same alignment for readability.

![](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/colspan-table-example.png)

#### Other alignment methods

We don’t recommend center or justified alignment of content within Advanced Table cells. These alignment methods can result in the content being difficult to read, especially if it is variable in length.

!!! Dont

Don’t center header labels or cell content within a table.

![](/assets/components/table/center-justified-alignment.png)

!!!

## Rows

### Headers

- Labels in headers should be clear, concise, and straightforward.
- The label should clearly indicate what type of content is contained within the cell (string, number, status, etc).
- Labels should use sentence-case capitalization, not all-caps.

#### Sticky headers

Sticky headers keep column labels visible while scrolling, aiding navigation in large data sets or nested rows.

![](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-sticky-header.png)  

### Expandable rows

> Expandable rows let users show or hide more content within the table. The expanded content should align with the header labels, even if the parent row includes minimal data, such as an expand/collapse button and text.
> 
> ![Advanced Table expandable rows. The parent rows display a summary of a Hashicorp product and the total price, the children rows show a breakdown of each billing item from that product and their individual cost.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/expandable-rows.png) 
> 
> ### When to use
> 
> Use expandable rows to display hierarchical data efficiently. This allows users to explore details within the table without navigating away.

Reviewer 3: brevity

```suggestion
Expandable rows let users show or hide more content without navigating away from the table. The expanded content should align with the header labels, even if the parent row includes minimal data.

![Advanced Table expandable rows. The parent rows display a summary of a Hashicorp product and the total price, the children rows show a breakdown of each billing item from that product and their individual cost.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/expandable-rows.png) 
```

!!! Dont

Avoid using expandable rows when data is not structured in parent-child relationships.

> ![Advanced Table column placement example](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-dont-parent-nested.png)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
![Advanced Table where the parent row has cells for name and email, but children rows have cells containing order date and total.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-dont-parent-nested.png)
```

!!!

> <!-- ### Interaction

Reviewer 5: Suggestion: lines 170-172 can be deleted.

- Users can navigate between cells using arrow keys. To expand or collapse a row, they must first focus on the expand button using the arrow keys, then press Enter to activate it. -->

### Nested rows

Use the same density setting for parent and child rows to keep layouts consistent.

!!! Dont

> ![Tall cell density mixed with short density rows. ](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-density-mix.png)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
![Advanced Table with default height parent rows and short density nested rows.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-density-mix.png)
```

> ### Nested rows
> 
> Use the same density setting for parent and child rows to keep layouts consistent.
> 
> 
> !!! Dont
> 
> ![Advanced Table with default height parent rows and short density nested rows.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-density-mix.png)
> 
> !!!

Reviewer 3: brevity

```suggestion
!!! Dont

Avoid using different density settings for parent and child rows.

![Advanced Table with default height parent rows and short density nested rows.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-density-mix.png)

!!!
```

### Striping 

!!! Info

Ensure that content within striped rows continue to maintain adequate color contrast with the striped background.

!!!

> ![Table striping examples](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-striping.png)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
![Advanced Tables with row striping have rows that alternate between white and light grey background color.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/advanced-table-striping.png)
```

Striping enhances readability by alternating row colors, making it easier to scan tabular data.

- Non-Nested Advanced Tables: Striping starts with the second row, distinguishing it from the header.
- Nested Advanced Tables: Child rows are automatically striped, while parent rows remain unstriped to visually reinforce hierarchy. This behavior cannot be disabled.

### Placement

!!! Info

The row placement property is only relevant within Figma and doesn’t exist as a property within the code.

!!!

Row placement determines the visual styling based on where the row is placed relative to other rows within the Advanced Table. Only cells with a column placement that is either start or end use the row placement property; column position middle does not use this property.

![The cell with column placement end and row placement end has a border radius set on the bottom right corner.](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/table-row-placement.png)

## Cells

### Density

- We recommend using medium cell density by default.

> - If the content is largely text-based, the short density allows more content to be displayed within the page.

Reviewer 3: I'm not following the thinking here. Can you clarify what you mean?

- While denser content allows for more rows to be displayed within a single page, it also makes comprehension and scanning more difficult.

## Horizontal scrolling

> - We recommend using this when there are many columns of equal priority.

Reviewer 3: Would they really be of equal priority, though? I would expect columns to generally be organized from higher priority (left) to lower priority (right). 

Something like this is more accurate:

```suggestion
Use horizontal scrolling when the number of columns expands beyond the viewport or container.
```

- Place the Advanced Table in a scrollable container for smooth side-scrolling.

![](/assets/components/table/advanced-table/horizontal-scrolling.png)

> <!-- 

Reviewer 5: Suggestion: all of the content commented out can be deleted.

Reviewer 5: (after it is moved to the a11y tab)

> - Place the Advanced Table in a scrollable container for smooth side-scrolling.

Reviewer 3: This is an implementation detail that's already captured in the code tab. 

```suggestion
```

This section will be moved to the accessibility tab

## Keyboard navigation

There are two modes when using a keyboard to interact with the Advanced Table: navigation and action.

### Navigation mode

When the user moves focus into the Advanced Table (tab key), the first cell will be focused, putting them into navigation mode and allowing the user to navigate freely with their arrow keys. Other keys within navigation mode include: 

- Home (fn + left): Move focus to the row's first cell.
- End (fn + right): Move focus to the row's last cell.
- PageUp (fn + up): Moves focus to the first cell in the column.
- PageDown (fn + down): Moves focus to the last cell in the column.

### Action mode

When the user is in navigation mode, pressing enter will activate action mode, where:

- If a cell contains a single interactive element, pressing Enter will focus on that element.
- If there is more than one interactive element within the cell, the first element will be focused, allowing the user to tab between them.
- Pressing escape will take the user out of action mode and back into navigation mode. -->

## Multi-Select

> Multi-select allows users to select multiple rows to perform bulk actions, such as deleting or exporting data. The Advanced Table maintains selection states across pagination and filtering, ensuring consistency when interacting with large datasets. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Multi-select allows users to select multiple rows to perform bulk actions, such as deleting or exporting data. The Advanced Table maintains selection states across pagination and filtering, ensuring consistency when interacting with large datasets. For more details, check out the [Multi-Select Table Pattern.](https://helios.hashicorp.design/patterns/table-multi-select)
```

!!! Info

> However, multi-select and sorting are not supported for nested rows at this time. For more details, check out the [Multi-Select Table Pattern.](https://helios.hashicorp.design/patterns/table-multi-select)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Multi-select and sorting are not supported for nested rows at this time. 
```

The multi select pattern has no additional information about this warning.
